# Elementary Mathematics
#### Video Demo: 
#### Description:
Run main.py to start the project. Exiting with a keyboard interrupt (ctrl+c) clears the terminal screen and kills the program.

This project is aimed at elementary-level mathematics students with the intent of helping to solidify (not introduce or teach) mathematics for each grade. In the project, you first choose a grade out grades 1 through 5. Each grade has 2-8 sets of questions that you can choose from, with the difficulty of each set representing the grade. Inputting an option that is unavailable does nothing. For example, in fourth grade math, the four sets you can choose from are "Adding fractions," "Subtracting fractions," "Adding decimals," and "Subtracting decimals." After choosing a set, ten questions come onto the screen one at a time. When the user inputs a correct answer, the program indicates it as correct, whereas if the user inputs an incorrect answer the program shows the correct answer.

The main.py file of this code uses a premade list from the auxiliary Python file called sets.py which contains the sets of questions for each grade. Each grade contains from 100 to 400 questions, which are broken up into sets of fifty problems from which each in-game set is chosen. The only exception is grade 3, where there are 144 questions for each of two sets (144 multiplication problems and 144 division problems). Ten problems are taken from each of the fifty sets each time the user chooses a new set to work on. Each item of the sets list is a dictionary with a grade key, storing the grade as an integer; a topics key, storing the titles of the problem sets in a list; and a questions key, storing the lists of questions. Each question item is a dictionary with a question key and an answer key, both strings.

Creating a sets.py file with a list of sets of questions seemed like the easiest option to do, so that in the main.py file I could simply loop through the grades and sets from the list, instead of generating random questions for each set. The sets of problems were generated using a separate Python file called generator.py which printed a list of dictionaries for each question set, printed in a loop to the terminal which I copied into the sets.py file. There are upsides and downsides that I considered.

The main reason why I steered away from generating questions for each type of problem was because doing so would result in a lot more code, which could become extremely messy with many function definitions and if/else logic statements. Using a premade list of questions would result in cleaner code. One obvious downside to using the list of questions is the size of the list. The Python file has over a thousand questions, which although on this scale likely isn't a big problem, might lead to lag on a larger scale. Another downside to using not generating the questions inside the main.py file is that there is only one set answer to each question. This means that for a question asking for a fractional answer, the program will still mark the answer wrong if you enter a decimal even if it is in reality correct.